Safety and driver comfort are the essential goals of new trends in automobile industry. An automatic wiper controller, helps not only in increasing safety by reducing distractions but also increases the overall comfort. Such an automatic control is available however it has limitations of high cost and low efficiency. we have proposed an automatic wiper controller, based on resistive rain sensor which is cost effective, efficient and has a wide range of output. An equivalent electrical and mathematical model of the sensor is developed, simulated and practically verified.  
   To increase the overall efficiency of system, it is necessary to linearize the sensor response. It is achieved using electrical equivalent model of the sensor and with appropriate linearization circuit. Further, a customized embedded system is developed using PIC micro-controller to achieve motor speed variation based on sensor output .A wiper speed control system for an automotive wiper controls the operational speed of a wiper in accordance with rain conditions. 
     The control system includes a rain sensor  detecting rain conditions to produce. an analog signal having an amplitude depending upon the detected rain conditions. The analog sensor signal is converted into a digital pulse signal by a converter  for application to a digital circuit system. A control signal is produced by digitally processing the pulse signal. The control signal is applied to a wiper driver circuit to adjust the operational speed or timing in accordance with the control signal.
